Dr. Karl Benedict has worked since 1986 in parallel tracks of information management, geospatial information technology and archaeology. Within the College of University Libraries & Learning Sciences he serves as an Associate Professor; as the Director of the Research Data Services Program, and as subject liaison for the departments of *Geography and Environmental Studies*, *Earth and Planetary Sciences*, and *Biology*  at the University of New Mexico. His previous experience includes fifteen years at the Earth Data Analysis Center at the University of New Mexico (including five years as the EDAC Director), for the US Forest Service, National Park Service, and in the private sector conducting archaeological research, developing geospatial databases, performing geospatial and statistical analyses, and developing web-based information delivery applications. In these positions he has developed and managed the development of information technology and data management capacity in support of multiple research and application domains including public health, resource management, hydro-climate research, atmospheric modeling, disaster planning and mitigation, and renewable energy research. 

In his role as the Director of Research Data Services he works with his team to support effective research data management by researchers at UNM through instruction, training, consultation, and infrastructure support. His current research foci include the development of open standards-based interoperable data management workflows and infrastructure in support of diverse research projects and streamlining the integration of research data products into long-term preservation systems to maximize the ongoing value of those data beyond the projects in which they are collected or generated. 

# Selected Publications

#. Wheeler, Jonathan, Karl Benedict. 2015. 'Functional Requirements Specification for Archival Asset Management: Identification and Integration of Essential Properties of Services Oriented Architecture Products'. *Journal of Map and Geography Libraries* 11(2). pp. 155-179. DOI: 10.1080/15420353.2015.1035474. URL: [http://www.tandfonline.com/doi/full/10.1080/15420353.2015.1035474](http://www.tandfonline.com/doi/full/10.1080/15420353.2015.1035474)

#. Watson, Richard P., Karl K Benedict, Theresa R. (Kuntz) Watson. 2015. 'Monitoring Weather Hazards on Rural Roads Using Remote Sensing and GIS'. In *Evolving Approaches to Understanding Natural Hazards*. G.A. Tobin and B.E. Montz (eds.) Cambridge Scholars Publishing: Newcastle-Upon-Tyne. pp. 266-275. <http://karlbenedict.com/pubs/2015_Watson_et_al.pdf> 

#. Brand, L. Arriana, Mark D. Dixon, Trevor Fetz, Juliet C. Stromberg, Steven Stewart, Gail Garber, David C. Goodrich, David S. Brookshire, Craig D. Broadbent and Karl Benedict. 2013. 'Projecting Avian Responses to Landscape Management Along the Middle Rio Grande, New Mexico'. *The Southwestern Naturalist*. 58(2):150-162. DOI: http://dx.doi.org/10.1894/0038-4909-58.2.150. URL: <http://www.bioone.org/doi/full/10.1894/0038-4909-58.2.150>

#. Qunying Huang, Chaowei Yang, Karl Benedict, Abdelmounaam Rezgui, Jibo Xie, Jizhe Xia  Songqing Chen. 2013. 'Using adaptively-coupled models and high performance computing for enabling the computability of dust storm forecasting'. *International Journal of Geographical Information Science*. 27(4):765-784. DOI:10.1080/13658816.2012.715650. URL: <http://www.tandfonline.com/doi/abs/10.1080/13658816.2012.715650>

#. Quinn, Todd, Karl Benedict, Jeff Dickey. 2012. 'Ligia Grischa, A Successful Swiss Colony of the Dakota Territory Frontier'. *Great Plains Quarterly*. Vol. 32 (Fall 2012):247-60.   
<http://digitaleditions.sheridan.com/publication/index.php?i=133104&m=&l=&p=5&pre=&ver=  
flex#%7B%22page%22:4,%22issue\_id%22:133104%7D> 

#. Leptoukh, G, R Kiang, R Soebiyanto, D Tong, P Ceccato, S Maxwell, R Rommel, G Jacquez, K Benedict, S Morain, P Yang, Q Huang, M Golden, R Chen, J Pinzon, B Zaitchik, D Irwin, S Estes, J Luvall, M Wimberly, X Xiao, K Charland, R Stumpf, Z Deng, C Tilburg, Y Liu, L McClure, and A Huff. 2012. 'Data Discovery, Access and Retrieval', in *Environmental Tracking for Public Health Surveillance*. Morain and Budge, eds. CRC Press, pp. 229–291. <http://karlbenedict.com/pubs/2012%20Environmental%20Tracking%20Chapter.pdf>

#. Watson, Richard, Karl Kent Benedict, Theresa R. Watson, Kurt Menke, and Robert R. Parmenter. 2006. 'Satellite Imagery and Internet Mapping Services in Support of Science-Based Adaptive management of Grasslands in the Valles Caldera National Preserve'. *Papers of the Applied Geography Conference - 2006*. 29:206-213. <http://karlbenedict.com/pubs/2006%20Applied%20Geography%20Conference%20Proceedings.pdf>

#. Benedict, Karl Kent, and Janet D. Orcutt. 2002. 'Settlement'. In, *From Folsom to Fogelson: the Cultural Resources Inventory Survey of Pecos National Historical Park*, Genevieve N. Head, Janet D. Orcutt, Eds., pp 165-219. Anthropology Projects, Cultural Resources Management, Intermountain Region, National Park Service, Dept. of the Interior. Santa Fe, NM.

#. Huckell, Bruce, Lisa Huckell, and Karl Kent Benedict. 2002. 'Maize Agriculture and the Rise of Mixed Farming-Foraging Economies in Southeastern Arizona During the Second Millennium B.C.'  In *Traditions, Transitions, and Technologies:  Themes in Southwestern Archaeology*, Sarah Schlanger, Editor. University Press of Colorado. pp 136-159.

#. Powell, Melissa, and Karl Kent Benedict. 2002. 'Ceramic Chronology'. In, *From Folsom to Fogelson :the Cultural Resources Inventory Survey of Pecos National Historical Park*, Genevieve N. Head, Janet D. Orcutt, Eds. Anthropology Projects, Cultural Resources Management, Intermountain Region, National Park Service, Dept. of the Interior. Santa Fe, NM. pp 59-98.

