*Dr. Karl K. Benedict* - is the Director of Research Data Services in the College of University Libraries and Learning Sciences, is an Associate Professor within the College, and serves as Subject Librarian for the departments of Earth and Planetary Sciences, Geography and Environmental Studies, Computer Science, Water Resources Management, and serves as the Geographic Information Science specialist across all disciplines that the Library supports. He has had a thirty year career with parallel tracks in Anthropology (with an emphasis in Archaeology) and Information Technology (with a focus on database design, geospatial data and applications, data analysis and visualization, data documentation, and developing internet-enabled standards-based data architectures) in which he has worked in the public (US Forest Service, US Park Service) and private (multiple cultural resources management firms, as a private consultant) sectors. Prior to moving full-time into the University Libraries, Dr. Benedict worked at the Earth Data Analysis Center (EDAC) at the University of New Mexico as the IT Program Director for over 10 years and as the Center Director for five years. While at EDAC he served as the cyberinfrastructure lead for five (and continues to serve for two) NSF EPSCoR projects totaling $45M, over $4.6M of which was managed by Dr. Benedict as Co-I or component lead for the projects. In addition to these large awards, Dr. Benedict has also been PI or Co-I on multiple other sponsored projects representing over $600k in direct funding as part of over $1.9M in collaborative projects funded by diverse agencies including NASA, NSF, IMLS, the Valles Caldera national reserve, and multiple New Mexico state agencies. 